Go around the room. everyone scan your QR code. 

Read your instructions. Do not react or say anything. 
When you understand your task, put your thumb up. 
When the countdown ends, perform your instructions. 

have a random assignment from a list for everyone. not clear who gets what 
alt: have separate list for each person, but unclear which person will get what. 
alt: have a given assignment for each person, but a key word is randomly chosen from a list. (e.g., sing/act out/


Song 
Take the paper and pen from Kirsten's desk. 
As quickly as you can, make as many scraps of paper as possible and write the word "arugula" on each one. 
Lay them out in front of you before the first minute is up. 

Later, defend your innocence. 

Ricardo
You are outraged. You know it was HIM. Song. He did this. 
Pace, fuming, for one minute. 
When the timer hits 1 minute, go up to him, and demand answers. 
Ask him to his face, "WHAT HAVE YOU DONE WITH MY ARUGULA?!" 

Continue interacting with song until the timer is up. you must continue asserting his theft. 

Maggie
Begin in front of the large screen we use for critiques. Perform any kind of exercise, as slowly or quickly as you wish, to the opposite wall and back. 
Repeat at a comfortable pace until the time is up. 

Grace 
choose a person now. 
When the timer starts, Follow alongside that person. Act like you are thoughtfully taking notes. 

Lauren 
Go to Kirsten's coat. In the left pocket, take out the packet of stickers. 
Silently, without expression, go around and place one one everyone's forehead, in whatever order you choose.  

Grey 
Call your mother on speakerphone. Read your lines 
"Mom, hi. I just -- I'm calling becuase I need to know something. It's driving me crazy. I can't figure it out anymore.
Can you tell me, please, what is a spoon??" 
Keep asking "but what does that really mean" 
at the 2 minute mark, you can tell her: my excellent student thanks you for participating in her performance art. 


Kirsten 
Stand in the corner. When no one is looking, apply your costume. After a minute go up to song and ricardo. 
"I hear there's been a theft."

or... After 2 minutes, go to the bathroom. put on a disguse. come back and sit down and say nothing. 

to do: 
bring -- pen, paper, star stickers in left coat pocket, a disguse for myself. 

Veerin: 









from Jawbone by mónica ojeda: 

a: i want to tell you the story of the day i killed my imaginary friend 
f: that's my story 
a: his name was martin, like my dead brother 
f: martin is my dead brother 
a: we went to the beach that day, but it wasn't even sunny
f: it was sunny. we were at the hotel pool and it was really hot
a: we started to build a house like ours, next to the waves 
f: my therapist says its normal that my imaginary friend's name is martin 
a: it was impossible to see the sky, and martin's face went gray 
f: martin was... an ugly boy 
a: martin was a really ugly boy 
f: my therapist says it's normal that my imaginary friend's name is martin 
a: i asked him what was happening, but he couldn't answer because... imaginary beings don't talk 
f: he told me he was dead 
a: he was so grey, he looked dead 
f: my therapist says its normal that my imaginary friend's name is martin 
a: that's when i realized. i wished he were dead 
f: that's when i realized that i wanted to show him what it's like to be dead 
a: i grabbed him by the hair and i dragged him towards the waves 
f: and i said to myself: i'm going to give me a dead body 
a: i told him, i'm going to give you a dead body. and i plunged his head into the waves. 


